[AUDIO LOGO]
>>MATTHEW LACROIX: The
true story of humanity
is far more complex and
interesting than we're told.
Symbolism is really the
language of the ancient people.
There are really two distinctive
paths that we could take,
which is what really the
serpent and the eagle represent.
It has nothing to
do with real eagles.
They represents this
flying above all,
seeing all and conquering
all and attacking from above.
The serpent is the
very first symbol
that is uniformly seen
all around Mesopotamia--
>>GEORGE NOORY:
All over the place?
>>LACROIX: Yeah.
Symbolism was the way where you
could have a complex message.
Only those initiates who studied
it understand the symbolic
versus the literal
aspect of it would know
what those symbols really mean.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NOORY: Welcome to another
edition of "Beyond Belief."
Matthew LaCroix is back with
us, a writer and researcher
who specializes in Mesopotamian
history and megalithic
civilizations.
That's a lot of work, Matthew.
How are you?
>>LACROIX: I'm great it's
awesome to be back talking
to you again, George.
It's truly an honor.
>>NOORY: How did
you get involved
in these kinds of topics?
>>LACROIX: It was not
something that I planned for.
It was something that
was just some curiosity
led me down that term,
rabbit hole, where
you go deeper and deeper
into understanding
ancient civilizations, how
the megalithic component plays
into the different ages
of those civilizations--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>LACROIX: And just the--
I guess the passion of wanting
to know what the truth is.
And that's then-- then here
we are after all these years
later.
It became really the core of
what my real drive and passion
is right now in life.
>>NOORY: What is
Mesopotamian history?
>>LACROIX: When we look
at around the world,
the different civilizations--
the Fertile Crescent region,
that's discussed as the
birthplace of civilization
and the first cities, the
Iraq-Syria area, up through--
>>NOORY: The cradle
of civilization?
>>LACROIX: Exactly.
And that's the Mesopotamian
area, like especially Iraq.
And because I specialize
in cuneiform tablets
from Sumerian,
Akkadian, and Babylonian
civilizations that were in that
area, that's one of the reasons
that I became so focused on
that particular area of study.
>>NOORY: They say
the Garden of Eden
was slated right around there.
>>LACROIX: This seems
like the story--
we can go back to the
very beginning, things
like the Atra-Hasis with this
creation of mankind coming
from this area that looks like I
think-- from what I've studied,
the Garden of Eden was likely
near the ancient city of Eridu,
which is something
that I'm also very
passionate about
discussing as well.
>>NOORY: You're really into
this ancient civilization
material, aren't you?
>>LACROIX: I can't
get enough of it.
I honestly-- it's
mind blowing when
you talk to someone who's
not privy to this alternative
history aspect that we discuss,
and you actually tell them
this true story based on tablets
and evidence around the world,
and they're like, why wasn't
I taught that in school?
Because that's what's
interesting about history--
>>NOORY: They don't
teach this in school.
>>LACROIX: They don't.
Because the true
story of humanity
is far more complex and
interesting than we're told.
>>NOORY: Symbols are
important too, aren't they?
>>LACROIX: Symbolism
is really the language
of the ancient people.
Yes, they had languages.
Like the Sumerians had practiced
cuneiform Sumerian writing.
But in terms of leaving
behind a message that
was shown around
the world, symbolism
was the way where you could
have a complex message
with multiple different
meanings and representations
be shown in a civilization.
But not only that, only
those initiates who studied,
understand the symbolic versus
the literal aspect of it
would know what those
symbols really mean.
>>NOORY: Matthew,
tell us the symbol
of first of all, the serpent.
>>LACROIX: The serpent is, in
terms of looking at ancient
civilizations, the very first
symbol that is uniformly seen
all around Mesopotamia--
>>NOORY: All over the place?
>>LACROIX: Yeah.
It really is a symbol that
then spread around the world
and has close relations
to the dragon.
They're actually
one and the same,
and we can go into
that as we discuss it.
>>NOORY: How about the eagle?
>>LACROIX: And the
eagle was another one
of these symbols that emerged
at the same time as the serpent.
And as we're going to be
going along and discussing,
it became a point
of contention where
they were really competing
against each other,
because they really
represent almost
the opposite of each other.
>>NOORY: How do these symbols
though tie into humanity?
>>LACROIX: The symbols
tie into humanity,
because when we look
at something like,
what does a serpent represent?
And you look at the human
archetype of our energy field,
our spinal cord with
the chakra energy
of reaching what is known as
the ancient Hindu understanding
of Kundalini, reaching the
highest states of energy
we can, what happens
is if you were
to look at that energy,
the spiral of energy
around the spinal cord,
it looks like a serpent.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>LACROIX: That's what our
energy field looks like.
So it represents knowledge.
And that is why it was
shown around the world
in civilizations that base
themselves on knowledge
and reaching higher
states of consciousness.
>>NOORY: Isn't the symbol
for medicine also a serpent?
>>LACROIX: It is.
And if you were to have
to call an ambulance
or whatever you're driving down
the road and you see one go by,
you'll notice what is known
as the rod of asclepius,
which is on the side--
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>LACROIX: What's so strange
about that is that the serpent
symbol became demonized
later and yet,
it's on some of our most
established medical industries.
>>NOORY: Let's look at
this picture, Matthew.
Tell us what we're looking at.
Let's start with the upper left.
What are we looking--
>>LACROIX: Sure.
And that's something
a story that we're
going to get into as we go
along here, because it has
quite a background behind it.
But that's the flag of
Mexico, and really it
is the heart to represent
in terms of what
we're going to be discussing.
Because what you see is
an eagle eating a serpent.
And as we go along, I want to--
I can point out that
flag, the flag of Mexico
is not the original
flag of the Aztec.
>>NOORY: Uh-huh.
>>LACROIX: It was
actually something
that was enacted by the
Spanish when they conquered,
which again is the whole
purpose behind the symbol,
because it's showing you
that the eagle is conquering
the serpent.
>>NOORY: And the next
one there in the middle?
>>LACROIX: The next
one is the caduceus.
It's an ancient Greek
and Egyptian symbol
known as the wings of Hermes.
It's also a show associated
with Thoth in Egypt.
And it basically represents
that spiral of energy
along the spinal cord
with wings of the top,
and the wings
represent ascension
to higher energy and higher
states of consciousness.
>>NOORY: The one on the
far right, very similar.
>>LACROIX: That's the
famous one that you'll
see on ambulances
in hospitals today.
That's known as the
rod of asclepius.
And again, very similar
to the caduceus.
Instead of two
serpents, it's one.
And instead of wings
where you're actually
seeing as a symbol--
without the wings represents
more of reaching good health.
>>NOORY: Bottom left?
>>LACROIX: The bottom left
is the famous depiction
of the Roman Aguila.
It represents the Roman Eagle,
which was so important to them
that if they lost one of these--
they call them a Standards, if
they lost one of these eagles
in battle, they would send
armies to retrieve them.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>LACROIX: And often sometimes
losing hundreds, if not
thousands of men.
That was how important that was
to them in their civilization
empire.
>>NOORY: The one in
the middle of course?
>>LACROIX: Everyone know.
That's the Great Seal of the
United States of America.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>LACROIX: And as we
go along in discussing
what the eagle
really represents,
people may have a different
perspective on seeing that.
>>NOORY: Bottom far right?
>>LACROIX: Bottom far right is
the World Health Organization.
And as you can
see it once again,
similar to the rod
of asclepius, you
have the symbol of the serpent
interwoven around the world,
showing--
reaching higher states
of health in this case,
but it can also
mean higher states
of energy and consciousness.
>>NOORY: Jonny Enoch on Gaia's
"Mystery Teachings Special"
discusses symbolism of the
serpent around the world.
Let's see if that
matches what you've said.
>>JONNY ENOCH: Probably
the most common symbolism
we find all throughout the
mysteries is the serpent.
It is found all over
the world and represents
different types of energy.
We find it in Asia
with the Naga,
in Mexico with
Quetzalcoatl and Kukulkan.
In Egypt, we find it on
the headdress of the king,
protruding from
the pineal gland.
It's on the caduceus or the
medical symbol we use today
on the side of your ambulance,
showing the serpents moving up
the spine and awakening the
pineal and the two swan wings
on either side or the
hemispheres of your brain,
representing the equilibrium.
The serpent is among
the oldest worship
symbols venerated in the world.
Anthropologists have even
found caves in Africa
that portrays serpent worship
going back 70,000 years.
What we believe
is this tradition
comes from Atlantis,
as according
to the Arab geographers the
mythical island, was often
referred to as Antilles
Island or the Dragon's Isle.
The serpent is symbolized as the
awakening of the spirit fire,
immortality, and
regeneration within us.
It is also represented
on the cartouche
of the Egyptian
Royalty or name titles.
When it is facing inwards,
it means the initiate
is seeking immortality.
But if the serpents are
facing away from each other,
it means immortality
has been attained.
The alchemists, inspired
by ancient Egypt,
Greece, and the Gnostics, often
use the symbol of the Ouroboros
or the serpent eating its own
tail to symbolize immortality
and wisdom.
In the Book of
Genesis, Adam and Eve
eat from the tree of knowledge
after conversing with a talking
snake that moves up
a tree or the spine,
as portrayed in
the Sistine Chapel
by the master Michelangelo.
>>NOORY: And isn't the
serpent Matthew also
representative of
the devil, Satan?
>>LACROIX: Well that's where
the inversion came into play.
Because really when we
look at that history,
like they just pulled up that
story Jonny Enoch was talking
about, Genesis story
of the Garden of Eden,
the serpent, what happened was
that depiction or description
of that story was almost--
it was an inversion.
Because if you read that,
it's considered evil
that, that serpent tempted
Adam and Eve with the knowledge
of good and evil.
But why would you--
we consider-- be considered evil
if you were to give knowledge
in higher consciousness
to someone--
>>NOORY: Did it get
taken out of context?
>>LACROIX: What happened
was, it ended up
being religious wars
emerged, especially
with Constantine and the rise
of the Holy Roman Empire.
With this-- again, the Roman
Empire with the Eagle, right?
It emerged a great
struggle over these
originally-- as we're going to
get into these original Anunna
gods, which is what's
depicted in depicted
in Genesis, as these creator
gods that are basically
battling over our
realm of our reality.
And essentially, the Roman
Empire, the Holy Roman Empire
emerging out of the
Roman Empire ended up
adopting the eagle as this great
symbol of power and conquering.
And they basically demonized
and destroyed the serpent
civilizations around the world
like Jonny Enoch mentioned,
the Gnostics and the
Great Hindu cultures
with the Nagas and the
Mesopotamian cultures
and throughout the
Americas as we'll get into.
>>NOORY: The Sumerians wrote
a lot about the Anunnaki.
Tell us what you think of that.
>>LACROIX: Absolutely.
My take on that entire
realm of information
is slightly differs
from some researchers.
I ended up becoming quite
fascinated and almost
obsessed with understanding
what the true story was.
Because when I started
to read those stories--
>>NOORY: It's a great story.
>>LACROIX: It's amazing.
Because you see comparisons
all around the world.
And they seem to be the
first influencers on the rise
and fall of civilizations.
But not only that,
they seem to be
where the source
of all civilization
emerged in-- for instance,
in ancient Sumer.
We find that the Sumerian
civilization literally
came out of nowhere
with the city of Eridu
being the first
city ever created
with metallurgy and metal
husbandry and astronomy
and mathematics and complex
languages and agriculture.
Really, the blueprints
and the building blocks
of a civilization
just were handed down
by these Anunna or Anunnaki
gods to literally create
civilization in
lower kingship, not--
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
>>LACROIX: Not just random
archetypes of nature.
>>NOORY: Matthew, who corrupted
the symbol of the eagle?
>>LACROIX: The
symbol of the eagle
if-- for instance,
if you were to look
into Native American
cultures like in the United
States, the Pacific Northwest,
the eagle represents something
very different than it does to
a lot of other civilizations
around the world.
And I think that's because there
are different interpretations
of how we could view that.
Now, if we're strictly talking
about ancient civilizations,
their depictions
of the eagle come
from a place that's
very different than what
we've been told.
And again, I really
want to strong emphasize
that the symbols of the
serpent and the eagle
very much changed
over and became
something very different
than what they started as.
So we think of now like you
said, the devil or Satan
or the underworld with a
serpent and this demonization,
and there's of course there's
an entire story that I can
get into on why that happened.
But basically, we're looking
at an inversion of that symbol.
>>NOORY: Tell us
why that happened.
>>LACROIX: Sure.
The place that we can track
that to, the very earliest
story where we know that
those symbols were established
in the way they were
and the reason they were
comes from an ancient tablet
known as the Legend of Etana.
>>NOORY: Etana.
>>LACROIX: Yeah.
And the Legend of Etana
goes into this entire story
of the eagle and the serpent,
which I want to point out
is the first tablet
that actually discusses
this distinction
between these two,
but not in a way where
they're describing
those symbols for
archetypes of humanity,
but actually represented by
some of these Anunna gods.
So for instance, in the
Garden of Eden story,
the serpent that
tempts Adam and Eve
is this original figure that
came out of Mesopotamia.
It was actually the founder
of Eridu known as Enki.
And I know you're
familiar with Enki.
That was his original name.
His later Akkadian name was Ea,
and his symbol was the serpent.
And just like that, you find
the rise of civilizations
underneath him, connections to
all that's the same mentality--
>>NOORY: It's all
over the planet.
>>LACROIX: Exactly.
And then at the same
time, his counterpart
was known as Enlil,
lord of the air or--
>>NOORY: Didn't
one kill the other?
>>LACROIX: Well they were
battling over control
of our realm and our dominion.
And Enlil and according
to the stories,
ended up-- if you read
the Legend of Etana,
he describes in that
how Enki was forced
to rule in the underworld
to be a positive counterpart
of another being known as
Nergal, who was a negative war
god.
So if you think
about it this way--
>>NOORY: Sounds like the devil.
>>LACROIX: Yeah.
And if you think
about it in the idea
that as above so below in
terms of the underworld
and the higher dimensions
in our physical plane,
there always has
to be a balance.
So you'd have to have a
positive and negative balance
in the underworld.
And you'd have to have a
positive-negative balance
in the higher dimensions
or above the underworld.
And essentially,
that's what happened
is that Enki was essentially
tricked in some ways
or forced to rule in the
underworld in which he was then
thrown under the bus, if
you want to use that term
and just considered
this evil being.
When really, the story
became very, very misled
by modern religions that
emerged out of Christianity.
>>NOORY: What do you think,
Matthew, really happened?
>>LACROIX: I think what we're
looking at is a story of how--
when I've studied the best
translators in the world
for Sumerian cuneiform--
George Smith was
the first person
to crack the code of ancient
Sumerian back in the 1800s.
He figured out what no one had
known to read or understand
in over 1,000 years.
Sumerian is considered
an isolated language
that's not shared by anything
else around the world.
In fact, it doesn't
even have an alphabet.
It's simply made up of
enormous amount of characters.
And the language
itself is so ancient
that it actually died
out, and no one alive
knew how to read or write it.
And so George Smith
came along in the 1800s
and with this great
discovery of the Ashu-- known
as the Ashurbanipal
Library, they
discovered an enormous cache
of these cuneiform tablets.
And he went through and spent
years and years and years
pouring in his
knowledge of ancient
Assyrian and Sumerian
culture to translate them.
And he was the first
one in over 1,000 years
to start to break down
what that story was.
And then later,
his information was
verified by great experts,
Samuel Kramer and Stephanie
Dalley.
>>NOORY: Where does
Zecharia Sitchin fit in?
>>LACROIX: Zecharia
Sitchin was--
he started to interpret
these ancient tablets.
And I don't necessarily agree
with all of his translations,
but he certainly got the
ball rolling for people
to know what these stories
are and what they represent.
>>NOORY: Is he
somewhat accurate?
>>LACROIX: He's
somewhat accurate.
But I disagree with some of
his interpretations for why--
the purpose of humanity and
the reason why they came--
that these Anunna gods came here
and what their purpose was--
>>NOORY: But you do agree
that the gods did come here?
>>LACROIX: Absolutely.
And they're certainly not--
>>NOORY: That's
dramatic all by itself.
>>LACROIX: No, they had
very direct conversations.
They used to have
a lot of-- they
used to fight with one another
over what our role would be,
not only in this Earth
but in the universe.
And one of the things
that comes across that's
fascinating if you connect
the Legend of Etana
with these roles that
these different Anunna seem
to take up in our reality.
And that's the point
I want to make is,
I really-- the more
I've studied this,
the more I don't see it
as spaceship coming here
and landing and
beings coming out.
They seem to
inter-dimensional beings
that are incredibly
powerful in the universe.
And you can see that in
a lot of different texts.
And in fact, George Smith came
to the very same conclusion.
And he talked
about how they seem
to come backwards and forwards
in time in our history
to basically intervene in these
certain events, in moments.
>>NOORY: How did
the Anunnaki even
conceive of
influencing humanity?
>>LACROIX: Well
the actual story--
so if you were curious like,
what is the point of humanity?
How did it all start?
Really where you get that
story comes from a tablet
called the Atra-Hasis.
And in the Atra-Hasis,
you find out
that there were these lower
beings right below the Great
Anunna who are
known as the Igigi.
And they were doing all of this
physical work on the planet,
describes how they were
clearing river channels.
And we know those river channels
are in the Fertile Crescent
known as the Tigris
and Euphrates rivers,
which if you don't clear
for agricultural purposes--
>>NOORY: That's where
the Garden of Eden hit.
>>LACROIX: Exactly.
They can fill with
sediment, and then they
could become unusable.
So they were tasked and
described in the stories
as having to manually
clear these river channels
and build these sacred temples.
And they ended up
revolting, because they
considered themselves
like demigods
and didn't want to
be doing this work.
And so what happened
was, there was a decision
made among these Great
Anunna or Anunnaki
where they decided
to create humanity
in their image to basically
do all the work of the gods.
And they called it the
Workload of the Gods.
>>NOORY: Matias De Stefano
talked about the Anunnaki
and the influence
they had on the humans
on the series, "Initiation."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>MATIAS DE STEFANO: Aessir,
those who came from the stars,
from the heavens, from the
unseen, what we call it.
They came from one of the stars
of the Orion's constellation.
Orion portal is one of the
most important in the galaxy.
They were big people
like the Giants.
They had this military shape
of body, really strong.
You can compare that with the
gods of Greece and Middle East
that have all these
muscles and big beards.
And they were the first ones to
be really attached to humanity.
But what we have more pressing
today is what Aessir gave us.
Aessir gave us the
structure of society.
Aessir gave us the basis of
our culture and our society
structure.
They gave us the construction
of the first temples
with big stones.
We can find these big stones
and big temples that they built
and they created
all over the planet.
They had settlements
in Middle East
all over and in the
Mediterranean Sea,
in Central America, in Asia.
They had different
spots wherever
you find these big blocks,
these big stones that
are the basements
for the new temples
were guided by the Aessir
and built by humans.
>>NOORY: What do
you think of that?
>>LACROIX: Yeah.
I think it's pretty
accurate in terms
of them coming here
and literally creating
civilization.
They discussed that.
They used to describe
how they would
build temples and pure spots
of energy on the Earth.
And today, when
we look at what's
known as the 30th parallel
across the planet,
we see that a lot of
these ancient sites
like Eradu and get
into the ancient Hindu
temples like Barabar
caves and Ellora caves
and a lot of other
areas around the world
as we continue throughout,
like Cairo, Egypt
and in the Giza Plateau,
right through the Americas.
Seem like they built in
these very specific places
with these very
specific reasons.
And they were the
archetypes or the architects
of essentially humanity.
And they would pick these
bloodline kings that were
related to their bloodlines.
And they would have them rule
over the rest of the people.
>>NOORY: Zecharia Sitchin
believes they came here
in genetically altered us.
Do you accept that?
>>LACROIX: I definitely-- when
I look at the work of experts
like Lloyd Pye who've looked
into this early hominid,
hominid--
>>NOORY: I miss him by the way.
>>LACROIX: I do too.
He was a great man.
And he went into detail
looking at-- well,
if you look at the history of
the genetic history of mankind
and the early Homo sapiens,
Neanderthals, Cro-Magnon,
type of early--
early aspect of our story,
you find this gigantic leap
that just comes out of nowhere
where our brain size doubles,
and we all of a sudden lose
much of the hair on our body,
and we turn into
something very different.
That seems to not be about this
natural survival on the planet,
but something that's about a
more civilized type of being.
Something that's more of
like a steward of the planet,
rather than just the survival
of the fittest aspect.
>>NOORY: How many
secret societies
tied around the serpent
are there, Matthew?
>>LACROIX: That is where
secret societies really began.
When we look at what
came out of Babylon,
and we look at what
came out of Egypt--
in Egypt, we had the
followers of Horus.
And then we of course, we
know that they would often
depict a serpent coming
out of their forehead--
>>NOORY: They were everywhere.
>>LACROIX: Right.
Which is known as
the third eye, which
is connected again to the pineal
gland and knowledge, higher
knowledge.
And then you see the
Naga Civilizations
in India, which they worshipped
the serpent and the dragon.
And then in China, we
see the same thing,
in Japan, throughout a
lot of Southeast Asia
and right into the Americas.
Jonny Enoch mentioned how--
so the Maya, their
serpent dragon God
was known as Kukulkan.
And in the Aztec, theirs
was known as Quetzalcoatl.
And that as we go
down further South,
the Inca and the pre-Inca
was known as Viracocha.
And every time we find this
serpent-dragon symbology,
which is often associated
with secret societies.
And one of the most famous
is known as the Brotherhood
of the Serpent.
>>NOORY: These societies,
why were they created?
>>LACROIX: The idea was that
if knowledge wasn't protected
in certain key places,
the knowledge that
had been handed down, that it
could be lost and corrupted
very easily.
And so what would happen was,
initiates in great and temples
would be built and groups
would come together
of certain individuals that are
of a higher conscious mindset,
someone who saw the
universe in a different way
and saw energy and consciousness
in a different way.
And they were hand-picked.
It wasn't that they
were the regular people,
commoners could just
join these schools.
They were actually chosen
through these initiate groups
of individuals and then
these sects of groups
formed around the world to
basically preserve and protect
the knowledge that had
been handed down thousands
and thousands of years before.
>>NOORY: I interviewed
Freddy Silva
on "Beyond Belief" who talked
about the serpent people.
>>FREDDY SILVA: And in 9600
BC, and this is actually
written down in one of the
sacred books of the Maya.
Group of gods suddenly
arrives in what
today is called the Yucatan,
and they were called the Itz
And they navigated
from stepping stone
to stepping stone,
the remains of what
used to be a big
landmass in the Atlantic
from a place called Atl.
They were really into
big names back then.
>>NOORY: Right.
They are.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
And the Aztec eventually called
the Atitlan or as we know it
today, Atlantis.
>>NOORY: Atlantis.
>>SILVA: And they said that
basically, they were called
the People of the Serpent.
And it has nothing to
do with being reptilian,
just the fact that anyone who
harnessed the laws of nature
was deemed to be in control
of the serpent energy,
because the serpents move
like this as does energy.
>>NOORY: There's got to
be some truth to this.
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
Because of the same moments on
the other side of the Atlantic,
there's a group of people
called the Ophiussa who
land in Portugal, in fact in
the location where I was born,
which is really weird.
And they were called the
People of the Serpent
as well at the same time.
And they escaped the sinking
landmass in the Atlantic.
And at the same
time in Egypt, they
show up as the
followers of Horus.
They're also People
of the Serpent.
So we're talking about
the same group of people
going out and repopulating
the world after everything
been completely changed.
>>NOORY: Why were there
so many symbolisms
tied around the serpent?
>>LACROIX: It's
really the core symbol
that represented knowledge
in higher consciousness.
So if you're looking at
the archetypes of humanity
and these different
paths that we could take,
there are really two distinctive
which is what really the
serpent and the eagle represent.
The serpent is
the path of taking
towards higher
consciousness, knowledge,
and basically this energetic
balance of both hemispheres
and being--
being a being that doesn't
fall into the illusions
of the material world
and conquering in war.
And but that is exactly what
the eagle ended up representing.
And of course it has nothing
to do with real eagles.
Real eagles are beautiful.
But it represents
this flying above all,
seeing all, and conquering
all, and attacking from above.
And Enlil's the reason why
that symbol was first used.
He can be shown in everything
from cylinder seals
to his later
incarnations and things
like the Greek culture as Zeus
with an eagle on his shoulder.
And he was-- that
was his mentality
and his domain in the way
that he decided basically
because of the laws of
duality here that exist.
They assumed different
roles within our reality.
And that's essentially
what this great battle--
secret battle around the
world that most don't even
know exist really came from.
>>NOORY: And the
fact that it's again
at the cradle of civilization
is fascinating, isn't it?
>>LACROIX: Yeah.
Because we know that those
symbols came from the Anunna.
This wasn't something that was
a later creation of humanity--
>>NOORY: It's been around
since the beginning of time.
>>LACROIX: These are the
symbols they injected
into our collective based
on the mentalities of how
they would rule our realm.
And that's really where it
seems like this came down to,
where there was jealousy
over how to rule us
in terms of this reality
we exist in where Enlil
was actually quite jealous over
the potential that humanity--
there's a tablet called
the Myth of Adapa
where it's described how there's
jealousy over this being that
gets created in perfection,
the first perfect man, who
they describe as being the
greatest among the Anunnaki.
It actually says that.
It says that not
only are we separate,
we are essentially them, but
like the children of them.
>>NOORY: What does the
pinecone and handbag represent?
>>LACROIX: That's one
of my favorite things
to talk about, because it's
a way where you can prove
that, that knowledge that
emerged on the Fertile Crescent
and then also was present
in Egypt and Atlantis
basically went around
the entire world.
So what we find, especially
in Mesopotamia and Iraq
is that the Anunna gods
are shown passing knowledge
through the pinecone
to the pineal gland,
like they pointed towards
the back of the head
of a king and a priest.
There's those are the
two individuals that
were chosen to essentially
be the hierarchy
to rule over humanity.
One from the spiritual
religious side and one
from the rulership side
of over the people.
And essentially, they would show
these two symbols every time.
But it didn't just end there.
It emerged around the world,
and what that was, was
they would show the passing
knowledge to those individuals,
and they but--
they would also have in
their hand what looks
like some kind of a handbag.
Now when you look into handbags,
they keep things that are safe.
They keep things
to protect them.
And what I believe that
those symbols represented
was not a literal
representation at all.
I believe that again, symbolism
is language of the ancients,
that they were showing
that these ancient gods had
all knowledge,
and that they were
passing the knowledge
that they had
on to these kings and priests.
And I just want to
mention one more thing--
if you go-- of course you see
in Egypt the symbol the serpent,
but specifically in the Americas
with the Olmec civilization
in Veracruz, there's depictions
of the handbag with the serpent
being passed there, and
we find the same thing
with these handbag symbols
and Gobekli Tepe in Turkey.
So we see this spreading of
knowledge all around the world.
>>NOORY: What about the
injection of all these symbols
into our society?
How did they do that?
>>LACROIX: Well, the original
meanings behind those symbols
has great-- has
been greatly lost.
And now of course, people think
the serpent is evil and all
of these different aspects.
But it really, it was injected
into those secret societies
where--
to give an example when we look
at, say, the Maya, the Aztec,
Toltec, and then we look into
the Inca, a lot of people
will be like, well,
hey, Matt, how
can you say that
these civilizations
were created by the serpent and
were higher consciousness when
they were doing blood
sacrifice in war?
And really what you find
is that those groups that
are depicted-- the Maya
and the Aztec and the Inca
are actually a much later
civilization that came.
And the original civilizations
that were founded there
call them the proto-Maya or
the proto-Aztec or proto-Inca.
Those were the ones that were
the pure civilizations that
were first created, and then
later on they became corrupted.
>>NOORY: What about secret
societies today, Matt?
>>LACROIX: Today--
>>NOORY: Are they
based around this?
>>LACROIX: Yeah.
Actually, they still hold
that knowledge and practice.
One of the greatest-- the
symbols shown-- the Gnostics
had the symbol of the serpent.
And to them, Gnosis
represented knowledge.
And what you find is that
all around the world,
there was secret societies
and groups that existed,
peppered all around the planet.
And what happened was, the Holy
Roman Empire under the eagle
and a lot of these
other conquering empires
that I've studied, you look
at every flag and crest
of nearly every
empire in history,
they've all had eagles or
variation of the eagle.
And what happened
was, the war was
that the Holy Roman
Empire decided
they wanted to rewrite history.
And that's exactly
what they did.
And the way they did
that was by erasing
what is known as the old
religion, which was religion
of the serpent, by
going around and burning
the Library of Alexandria in
Egypt, destroying the Gnostics,
and even going up-- and of
course conquering the Americas.
And eventually-- and of
course, that wasn't the Romans,
but that was a
later Spanish group.
But then we saw-- essentially,
the best Roman story
of that, which we'll I'm sure
we'll get into is St. Patrick.
>>NOORY: Did they
intentionally mislead people?
>>LACROIX: They did.
They're the ones who rewrote the
story to demonize the serpent
and to make the eagle
seem like a symbol of just
freedom and higher states.
But really it was the opposite.
We've been greatly
tricked in these symbols.
And we have to go
back and look at what
the ancients said about
them, like Freddy Silva just
described.
We know this knowledge was
passed all around the world.
And we know what it
originally meant.
So we need to go
back, not forwards,
and learn what we've
lost, and then reestablish
and reintegrate that
into our thinking
to see these symbols
and their meanings
in a completely new light again.
>>NOORY: You mentioned
St. Patrick's Day.
How does that tie into this?
>>LACROIX: Yeah.
That's actually one of the
saddest things of all--
>>NOORY: Saddest, really?
>>LACROIX: Yeah, it really is.
It's probably the most
misunderstood and saddest
holidays that we
celebrate of all time.
>>NOORY: Why?
>>LACROIX: Well, let me give you
an example of what that really
represents.
And of course, this
is going to ruin it
for a lot of people that
love St. Patrick's Day.
First of all, it has nothing
to do with Irish pride.
That's how it was shown later.
It has nothing to do with
leprechauns or Irish pride.
It has nothing to--
>>NOORY: You just killed
two great fantasy--
>>LACROIX: I know.
Really, if you look
into what that was,
is that St. Patrick, right?
The St. Patrick was a Roman.
His father was a Roman official.
And he was tasked, just
like the Roman Empire did
with cleansing-- destroying the
Gnostic people who originally
were the Egyptians and
burning library of Alexandria,
he was tasked with going to
Ireland and the UK and Scotland
area.
But we specifically
think of it as Ireland,
because that was
the core of this.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>LACROIX: Where
they went there,
and they were supposed to
eradicate the last group
on the planet that
was still studying
was that ancient old religion
who were known as The Serpent.
So if you look at the
story of St. Patrick,
he was reading the
serpents, the snakes--
the snakes from Ireland.
But if you look all
throughout geologic history
of that region, there's never
been snakes that lived there.
It's a metaphor.
It's a metaphor for
the Druid people,
and pagans as a more
general term, anyone
who didn't follow this
monotheistic Christian
religion, and they
were seen as a threat.
Because they were the last group
that had the ancient knowledge,
and they were greatly demonized
later-- so what happened was,
you're celebrating
the representation
of the genocide and cleansing
of the last Serpent group
on the planet, the Druids,
who build Stonehenge.
>>NOORY: Did St. Patrick's
have a staff and a serpent?
>>LACROIX: That was Moses.
>>NOORY: That was Moses?
>>LACROIX: Yeah.
Yeah.
Moses had the staff
and the serpent.
And of course you
look into that story
and you find out
that he was commanded
to destroy these ancient
bloodlines of the sons of Enoch
in the land of
Canaan, which go back
to these bloodlines of
the Serpent and Enki
from the very beginning, who
are known as the Nepheline.
>>NOORY: You went to
Chichen Itza back in 2017.
Tell us about that.
>>LACROIX: I did.
That was a really
enlightening trip for me.
And here's an image of
what I want to describe.
So a lot of people
have been there.
It's a very popular
tourist location.
But really what most
people are focusing on
is the Great Kukulkan's
temple in the very center.
The Spanish called
it El Castillo.
But when I was--
I was looking for something
entirely different
when I was there.
I was looking for evidence of
when the Maya became corrupted
by the Eagle influences.
Because I recognized that
the Maya civilization had
this great downfall, and
there was an influence that
arose later on in
their civilization
that came at a different time.
And I found it in a
very obscure place.
There is a location that's
very small and almost no one
visits it.
It sort of sits off to the
side of Kukulkan's temple known
as The Platform, the
Eagle, and the Jaguars.
And that's what this is
depicting right here.
And so let me just
explain this for a minute.
What the Maya are showing
here in these glyphs
is they're showing a story.
They're showing their story.
And they're showing how on the
right side, that's Kukulkan,
and it could be shown with
snakes all coming out of him.
And notice, he's not
actually a feathered dragon
like the symbols often show.
That's a metaphor and a
symbol to describe his symbol,
which was the serpent
and the dragon.
Notice how he's a man.
He's a-- he's a-- he's a man--
>>NOORY: With weird feet.
>>LACROIX: With weird feet.
But he also-- it shows the
symbols of the serpents
coming out of him and what-- and
notice how it's in its own box,
right?
So that's where it began.
So you can see that
as Kukulkan creating
the Maya civilization and its
purity from the very beginning.
Now look, George,
what's in the middle.
All of a sudden, we have
something very different
that comes in.
We see an eagle
eating the pinecone.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Why?
>>LACROIX: Because
the pinecone is
seen as a symbol of knowledge.
And in many ways, if you look
at the influences of empires
around the world,
knowledge was not
seen as a trait that was passed
along or really encouraged.
In fact, the eagle empires
like the Roman Empire
was all about domination
and control through fear.
It wasn't about
passing knowledge.
So what you see there, just
like the flag of Mexico.
You're seeing the
eagle dominating
the knowledge of
those civilizations
and corrupting them into a
war culture, which exactly
what happened to the Maya.
>>NOORY: You have
a passion for this.
I can tell.
>>LACROIX: I do.
>>NOORY: How come?
>>LACROIX: To me, when you
look at these breadcrumbs from
the ancients and you track them,
they tell us the entire story
of what we've been through--
this great struggle
of civilizations
rising and following based
on these various influences
and how it really
gets into the heart
and core of who we are and about
who we were supposed to be.
And how really what
we're doing now
is trying to regain the
knowledge of these Serpent
Secret Societies that have
been destroyed systematically
around the world by
Columbus in the North,
Pizarro in South America
and Cortez in Mexico
who systematically
conquered those
civilizations and
destroyed them--
>>NOORY: And wipe them out.
>>LACROIX: And wipe them out.
And now, we're trying
to take those fragments
and those pieces, put
them together again
and then regain that knowledge.
>>NOORY: That sculpture we
just saw from Chichen Itza,
where was that in
relationship to--
>>LACROIX: It's right
next to Kukulkan's Temple,
but it's a small platform that
everyone just sort of walks
right by.
And I've never heard
anyone discuss that.
In fact, I brought it up to tour
guides, and they have no idea--
>>NOORY: Is it guarded?
>>LACROIX: It's not guarded.
It's just not known about.
Because again, I think
it depicts this--
you could call it
forbidden story,
that forbidden story
of what really happened
to these civilizations and
how the influences that
destroyed them are very
much still in control today.
>>NOORY: Is there a lot of evil
behind these so civilizations?
>>LACROIX: Yeah.
So let me give you an
example back to the Maya
showing the eagle.
What we find is that when
you look into the Maya,
they actually describe an
influence that came later.
They called it God L. And the
God L was shown all of a sudden
when Kukulkan departed
from that region and left
and then created
civilizations elsewhere.
Something else-- another
influence came in.
Another Anunna god came in
and started influencing them.
And what we find is,
George, if I mentioned how
in the underworld, it's
ruled by a positive
and a negative being.
Enki was the positive
being with a serpent,
and then the eagle counterpart
was known as Nergal.
Now he was shown
as a god of war.
>>NOORY: Spell it?
>>LACROIX: N-E-R-G-A-L. And
he was known as a god of war.
Now when you look
at the descriptions
of God L in the Maya,
it's exactly the same.
And so what you're seeing is--
>>NOORY: Something happened.
>>LACROIX: There's
battling of these energies
to create civilizations and then
later corrupt and destroy them.
>>NOORY: What do you think
our world was like then?
>>LACROIX: Back then we can
imagine these isolated groups
that were trading
with each other,
but isolated in
terms of not knowing
the totality of these Anunna
gods and where they were.
Like for instance,
the Aztec were
waiting for this
return of Quetzalcoatl.
They were waiting
for his return--
>>NOORY: It looks like
he was in a spaceship.
>>LACROIX: It's-- he left.
Essentially departed with his
groups of sages and mystics.
And of course, we don't
know where exactly he went.
But the point was,
the Spanish actually
knew the entire
Aztec story, and they
realized that the only way that
they could conquer a Great War
empire that the Aztec became was
to time Cortez's return exactly
when Quetzalcoatl was
supposed to return to them.
And they confused
him with being--
with being
Quetzalcoatl, and then
he was subsequently able
to conquer Moctezuma
and the entire Aztec empire.
>>NOORY: How do these
secret societies today,
Matthew, embed their symbolisms
in our own futures and lives?
>>LACROIX: Well I mean, again
in the modern medical industry
and all these
prestigious symbols,
the serpent is still there.
It's still present in
the most highest esteemed
establishments.
So how can it really be that
evil symbol that we know
or that were taught, right?
So therefore, the problem is
that those secret societies
that really practice
this were literally
eradicated all over the world.
That was the purpose
of St. Patrick
and the Druids-- with
the Druids in Ireland
and how the Romans conquered
all the way through the Gnostics
in Egypt and all those areas.
They were trying to
wipe that story out,
so that knowledge
would be truly lost--
>>NOORY: They almost did.
>>LACROIX: They almost did.
>>NOORY: In "The Secret
Life of Symbols,"
the late Jordan Maxwell
discusses his idea of symbolism
with secret societies
>>JORDAN MAXWELL: You have to be
careful about secret societies.
Because these
different societies
become very powerful
and very wealthy,
but they have an agenda.
They have a particular
agenda that they're
trying to create or
to bring into being.
And therefore, they will build
the whole world around you.
And you accept what--
when you're a child or a
baby, you come into the world,
and you just accept everything.
And if you don't grow up,
you just-- as a grown person,
you just accept
whatever there is.
Because that's the way it is.
But that's not the way it is.
And you keep in
mind that there were
secret societies
that were involved
in founding this country.
And who were they?
And what were they trying to do?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You have to know
secret societies
to understand why there are
so many different symbols
and emblems in Washington
DC and around the world.
Because there's
different groups,
societies that are working
towards certain agenda.
And they are putting symbols
out that represent their agenda.
>>NOORY: Jordan Maxwell, who
passed away at the age of 82,
will be missed sorely.
>>LACROIX: Yes, he will.
>>NOORY: But why were
there even secret societies
in the first place?
>>LACROIX: Well,
it was generally
understood that this
knowledge was not
able to be understood
by the masses.
It was something that
would only be allowed
to be understood by those
who had the consciousness
and capacity to understand it.
And so they recognize that.
And whether or not
you agree with it,
it's just the way that it was
decided that only small groups
were created around the world.
Now just like was
mentioned in that video,
those secret societies,
the original Serpent Secret
Societies were first
conquered, and then
the other original societies
were gradually became
corrupted.
Now I want to point out, it's
mentioned the founding fathers
of the United States.
Those are known
as the Freemasons.
And most of the
founding fathers were
part of the Freemasons, which is
a secret society that actually
still--
>>NOORY: Corruptible--
>>LACROIX: Exist today.
Yeah.
But what's funny is that or
not funny but interesting
is that, Benjamin--
Benjamin Franklin knew about
what the symbol of eagle meant.
Its a conquering symbol.
And he actually wanted the
symbol of the United States
to be a turkey.
>>NOORY: A turkey?
>>LACROIX: Completely
diff-- think
about a turkey is on the
ground rather than flying.
It represents the opposite.
But it's still a
bird, but it doesn't
represent the same thing
that the eagle does.
>>NOORY: What's our future
hold for us, Matthew?
Look into your crystal ball.
>>LACROIX: I think our
future is really bright.
Because what we have
now is the internet
has allowed
like-minded individuals
to no longer hide
in the shadows.
The secret societies
are no longer
hidden behind this
term, esoteric.
This term of hidden knowledge.
Now it's in the open for
anyone who wants to learn.
And so therefore, you get groups
on like social media and people
around the world that are
sharing, coming together
and bringing back
this shared knowledge
from these secret societies.
And instead of being secret,
now it's just completely open.
It just takes the
inquisitive mind of someone
who's open-minded enough
and curious to want
to know the truth to break
down these old paradigms
and then reforge to learn what
the secrets of the ancients
were.
>>NOORY: Do some of
these secret societies
know that there are
people like you who
have decoded their messages?
>>LACROIX: I think
that they're probably
happy that the torch is
being carried by a younger
generation that is
passionate enough
to want to return this
knowledge in the light of truth,
not in a corrupted way,
but in a way where what did
the original secret societies
known as the Old Religion
like I mentioned around the
world, what were they trying
to say, what were they
trying to pass to us,
what exactly did that
knowledge mean to represent us
in our state in this reality?
Understanding that it represents
reaching higher states
of energy to reach Kundalini.
That's what's mimicked by all
these groups, whether it's
the Nagas and the ancient
monks and the Hindu
cultures to the
Chinese cultures back
in antiquity to the Egyptians
and the Mesopotamians
and the Mediterranean and
the Druids and the Americas.
They're all saying
the same thing
that we all have the power
to become gods ourselves
if we simply can remember
what the knowledge that
was lost once was.
>>NOORY: Matthew, predict
our future for us.
>>LACROIX: I think that
what we're seeing right now
is there is a cauldron
of water on an oven
right now that
represents consciousness,
and there's a top
that's being held down
by certain controlling
elites around the world,
corrupted controlling
elites, that don't
want that knowledge known.
And so they're
holding down this top.
But what's amazing
about, if you think
about that in terms
of where we're going
is that, cauldron of water,
that bubbling cauldron,
that top can't stay
on there forever.
It's going to
eventually blow off.
And that's how I see our path
as a conscious society here
on Earth is that slowly
the truth is being known
by more and more
people around the world
until that old paradigm
in an illusion falls.
>>NOORY: And you're
bullish on the future?
>>LACROIX: I'm very optimistic.
I think that we will
return to the Golden
Age with the knowledge
that we once had,
and we'll be able to take all
the technology we have now
and combine it to reach a
new stage of our human story
that's never been
able to be reached,
because there have
been so many falls
of these civilizations that
haven't allowed them to reach
the next stage.
>>NOORY: How do people get
a hold of you, Matthew?
>>LACROIX: People
can find my work
through my website at
TheStageOfTime.com.
I'm also on YouTube
under Matthew LaCroix
and under Instagram
under thestageoftime.
>>NOORY: What is
your next project?
>>LACROIX: Right now,
I'm finishing writing
a co-authoring a book with Billy
Carson where we're writing--
it's known as the Epic of
Humanity where we're telling--
>>NOORY: I think
the world of Billy.
>>LACROIX: The true
story of humanity.
And we're going to be
traveling down actually.
Him and I and several
others meeting
with Brien Foerster in
South America in Bolivia
to go to these ancient
megalithic sites
to show the story
of how there was
different civilizations
that came and left that
have come a lot over time.
>>NOORY: Report back to
us when you come back.
>>LACROIX: Absolutely.
I'd love to.
>>NOORY: Exciting.
Thank you, Matt, for
being on the program.
>>LACROIX: Thank you, George.
I appreciate it.
>>NOORY: These secret societies
have meant so much to our past,
but they really have
influenced our future.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[AUDIO LOGO]